Welcome back.
How can we catch errors in our programs in JavaScript.
There are two ways that we can go about it.
One is the catch block or the try catch block which we'll talk about and also the catch method now.
In this video we're going to talk about the first on and in the next video we'll talk about this one.
So how does it work.
Well a try catch block simply works like this.
If I had a function let's call it fail and this function inside of here does something simple.
It uses a try block of code.
And in here try simply means hey just run this piece of code and this try block can also be accompanied
by a catch block.
So try anything that's inside of this block if inside of this block there's any errors then handle them
in here in here.
Let's just say a console DOT Blog and I'll say this works and do a catch here that says well let's just
say console dot log we have made an whoopsie if I run this fail function well I'll get an error because
the last piece of the puzzle is that this catch block also accepts an error parameter and this air parameter
is whatever gets thrown from here as the air object.
Well I get this works because nothing's happened in this code.
This code just simply works in the cache block was never called this function although it's called Fail
has never failed.
But what if we have something that fails in here.
What if I miss Belle console dialog and click Run.
There you go.
Now it says we have made an upset.
If I add the error object here and I click Run look at that I get a reference error console is not defined
and I get a stack trace here which is are where are we on the call stack.
Because I'm using this rebel tool inside of the browser.
The call stack is pretty pretty big if instead we did this on our console you'll see that the stack
trace is quite small.
We just failed at the fail function OK.
Well what if we do something like this we'll fix console that log and instead actually throw a new error
and this error will be whoopsie with exclamation marks if I run this I see that we have made a new C
this piece of code works because Trai is going to go line by line.
We see that this is going to get logged and then we're going to encounter an error.
And as soon as we encounter an error it's going to go up.
All right.
Well we have to handle it.
Let's see is there a catch here.
Yep.
There's a catch.
Let's go here.
I'll pass this new air instance into this air object and now I have air right here so that if I do air
dot let's say name I have the air.
If I do stack I have this crazy stack and if I do message I see that I have whoopsie and we're able
to create a hurdle and catch an error like this so we can wrap our entire piece of code into a try.
BLOCK And then catch the error if we want to handle it somehow.
Now the interesting thing here is that if I move this piece of code down here what do you think will
happen.
Well this is never going to get called right.
As soon as we encounter an error our JavaScript engine says All right I'm stopping whatever I'm doing
I'm looking for a catch block.
Is there anything to catch me.
Oh yeah here it is.
If I remove this and I run this while I get an error because try won't let you do anything without the
catch block or finally what's this one.
Let's talk about it.
If I bring this back everything is still working.
We're getting a new C. We can also have a finally here and the finally block says hey no matter what
happens in the tri cache block finally at the end of it all do something for me so I can say console
dialogue still good.
And if I run this look at that this piece of code still runs finally simply says hey I don't care what
happens in the try I don't care what happened in the catch after you've done with all that business.
Finally do something here so that we can always do something like return
returning fail so that if I run this look at that our program returns something in the end even if we
have an error internally we're handling the error on our own by just console logging it.
In this case now the interesting thing here with the try catch block is that if we had any code outside
of here let's say console that log exclamation marks over here and a smiley face.
Well if I run this this part is never going to get run because we're running the try block which throws
which goes into the cache block.
And then the finally gets run which returns our function.
Now this try catch block you may not have seen it that often in real code.
It's oftentimes the simplest way to handle errors.
This type of try catch block can be used to catch any type of synchronous errors.
Now this try catch block can be used in different ways.
I can even nest them if I wanted to.
For example if I just remove everything here and just do try and in here do another try block and we'll
call something here which is a function that doesn't exist.
So we'll throw an error.
We'll do here a catch error and end here.
Well let's throw a new error in here which is the actual error and then outside of this we have also
the catch block that finally handles console dialog.
Got it.
Which will be the actual error.
So what's happening here.
We have a tri block that tries this code that inside of it has another try block that tries this code
which is going to fail on line 3 which is going to catch and throw.
Once again the another error that has the message of the previous error.
And that's going to throw.
Which means that this piece of code will throw inside of this original tribe block which will catch
here.
I know it looks a little bit confusing but we can nest these things to handle catching.
At each step of our execution context so that if I run this call and make sure that I get error over
here and click Run look at that I have got it.
I have a reference error.
Something is not defined so I'm catching this before it actually errors out like it did before where
I don't catch it properly and I get an actual red piece of text.
Now this try catch block works with synchronous errors or synchronous code for example if in here I
had a set timeout which is asynchronous and had a function that doesn't do anything let's say a function
in here that uses a fake variable that doesn't exist.
We haven't declared it anywhere and we'll run this in one second if I click run here.
Do you see that everything is working.
I get no errors.
This catch block doesn't catch it because this code is asynchronous.
And as we know this exits our current call stack goes all the way to the web API.
The callback queue the van loop and gets popped onto this or pushed onto the stack after this whole
piece of synchronous code is already done executing so that's a problem.
Right.
In Javascript we don't only write synchronous code we write asynchronous code as well.
So how do we handle that.
Let's find out in the next video.